<h1>Fabled Magic Items Stories</h1>

<h2>ASSASSIN'S CHAIN</h2>
This fine chain shirt is fashioned from thousands of tiny, interlocking rings of a mysterious black metal. The chain makes virtually no noise when worn. 
Gildreth was a killer. He killed for money; he killed for pleasure. In the end, he killed only for revenge.Gildreth had earned many enemies in his long career; chief among them were the Black Cabal. On a moonless night, while Gildreth was away, members of the Cabal infiltrated his home and murdered his family. When Gildreth returned and discovered his slain family, he vowed he would not rest until every last member of the Cabal was dead by his own hand.One by one, Gildreth tracked down and assassinated the Cabal. He was relentless and single-minded, allowing nothing to stand in his way. 
Not even his death. As Gildreth was infiltrating the fortress of the Cabal’s leader, he felt a sharp and sudden pain—a thin sword blade was protruding from his chest! Blood poured from the wicked wound and down his chain shirt. Gildreth gasped, his eyes grew dim, and he fell lifelessly to the floor.

Then Gildreth’s eyes snapped opened. He felt his life surging back into his body! The tiny chain rings of his armor had turned a deep black and showed no sign of the deadly wound. He understood immediately—not even Death itself would stop him!In time, the last of the Black Cabal lay dying at Gildreth’s feet. At that moment, Gildreth suddenly felt his own life slipping away, and he understood at last. Death had allowed him to live only long enough to complete his vendetta. 
The fate of Gildreth’s strange chain shirt is unknown. Perhaps it found its way to another soul seeking vengeance…

<h2>BATTLECASTER'S ARMOR</h2>
This fine mithral breastplate is light and exquisitely made. 
It is decorated with delicate arcane glyphs and symbols which glow with a soft, blue light. 
Long ago, the legendary warrior-mage known as Gax walked the land. Gax, later known to history as Gax the Great, was a mysterious figure renowned for his uncanny ability to weave together martial and magical combat in unique and powerful ways. An unparalleled master at crafting magic arms and armor, Gax is known for a number of fantastic, magical items. He is said to have created his first great item of magic when he was still a young apprentice. At that time, his master was an old wizard who mercilessly drilled the fundamentals of magic into the young apprentice’s mind. The studious old wizard also derisively dismissed Gax's ideas for combining magic and battle and openly berated Gax for his love of swordplay, weaponry, and armor.

Determined to prove that his theories were possible (and, truth be told, equally determined to spite his master), Gax apprenticed himself at the same time to a renowned weapon smith and armorer in a nearby town. The youth quickly proved as skilled at metalcraft as he was at magic. Young Gax spent his days in magical study and his nights working in the smith's forge, crafting an exquisite breastplate of the finest mithral. He imbued the breastplate’s delicate glyphs and symbols with powerful protective magic far beyond the ability of magic-wielders many years his senior.

When the breastplate was finally completed, Gax proudly showed it to his mentor. The smith was so impressed that he coveted it for himself, and he demanded that Gax give the breastplate to him. When Gax refused, the smith attempted to take it by force. At the end of a quick but violent scuffle, the smith lay dead near the very anvil on which Gax had finished his wondrous breastplate. Shocked and terrified, the boy fled, running to the small stone building where the old wizard lived. Hoping the wizard would be understanding about what happened and suitably impressed with Gax's magical breastplate, the boy breathlessly recounted recent events.

The old wizard was neither understanding nor impressed. He coldly chided Gax for wasting his time on a “trinket” and rebuked Gax for taking a life over“nothing more than a worthless piece of pretty metal.” Furious and defeated, Gax shouted profanities at his master before running off into the woods.Gax decided that he would make his way in the world on his own terms. He would learn everything he could about magic and combat, he would excel in both, and he would do whatever it took to fuse the two into what would eventually become known as the style of the battlecaster.From that day on, until the day he drew his final breath, Gax was never without his beloved battlecaster's armor.

<h2>BLOOD MOON ORB</h2>
This strange orb is the size of a human’s head, and appears to be crafted from a single piece of glass. No seam or opening is visible, yet the orb is filled with a thick red liquid, which swirls slowly within.

Most female serpentine lamia (see Creature Codex) take part in the Revelry, part sacred ceremony and part frenzied celebration, which occurs on nights of the full moon. Those who partake in these secretive mysteries believe they are possessed and empowered by the mystical power of the very moon itself. Outsiders do not generally learn details of what transpires during these moonlit ceremonies. Although no two Revelries are identical, there are elements in every ceremony which never change. Celebrants participate in chaotic dancing, hypnotic swaying, and frenzied distortions of their serpentine bodies as if seized with madness. Snakes are also typically involved in the Revelry, with participants often wearing them around their bodies or otherwise handling them in various symbolic and proscribed manners. 

The rite culminates in an ecstatic, mystical fervor and extreme loss of inhibition known as Shiv’ash (literally, “the madness and ecstasy of the moon”). In this state, the lamia lose all self-control. They shout excitedly, shrieking out prophecies, and engage in all manner of debauchery. 

The Night of the Blood Moon occurs once per year. It is the most sacred of all Revelries—a time when alliances are sealed, blood sacrifices are made, wars are ended, and new matriarchs are chosen. It is during a Night of the Blood Moon long ago that a powerful lamia cult created the blood moon orb.Little is known about the blood moon orb, save that it contains blood drops from the one hundred sacrifices made that night. It is said the lamia females wished to capture the mystical spirit of the moon itself in theblood moon orb, and some believe they did exactly that.

<h2>BLOOD SPIKE ARMOR</h2>
This ancient plate armor is crafted from a strange black metal. Vicious spikes protrude from the shoulders and breastplate. Hideous, demonic faces are etched into the black metal.

Gregor the Red was a legendary warrior with a thirst for blood. On one occasion, Gregor was hired to retrieve a golden cup from an ancient tomb. After many dangerous encounters, Gregor at last found the golden cup in the lowest bowels of the tomb. As he reached for the cup, he noticed a suit of ancient armor piled in a corner. Gregor was mesmerized by the frightening armor. He would take the golden cup back to his employer, but he would claim the magnificent armor for himself!

Once back at his base, Gregor set about the long and difficult task of restoring and repairing the armor. He hired the best armorers and weaponsmiths to ensure the armor was brought back to all its former glory. Of course, he also could not resist having his smiths add new detailing to the armor to be sure everyone knew it was his and his alone.

Gregor wore his terrifying spiked armor on every mission and campaign from that day on. He even mastered close-combat techniques that helped him utilize the armor spikes. Gregor derived a perverse pleasure from driving the spikes into his enemies and watching the blood drip onto his armor. Because of this, Gregor named his beloved plate blood spike armor. Gregor is said to have lost his life to a powerful undead being in some far-away crypt. As far as anyone knows, his remains and armor could still be there…
