<h1>Vault of Magic</h2>
Throughout the Vault of Magic there are unique items and categories. Certain consumables have special rules.

<h2>Bezoars</h2>
A bezoar is a solid mass of indigestible material that accumulates in a creature’s digestive tract. A bezoar looks and feels like a small stone. Any creature can expel a bezoar, but bezoars from creatures with magical origins or with a natural inclination for magic have unique, magical properties when consumed by another creature. 

To gain the benefits of a bezoar, you must swallow it whole. When you swallow a bezoar, your hit point maximum is reduced by 2d4, and the bezoar remains in your stomach for a number of days equal to that amount. At the end of the duration, you automatically regurgitate the used-up bezoar, take 2d4 acid damage from the process of expelling the bezoar, and your hit point maximum returns to normal. A used-up bezoar is nonmagical and crumbles to dust within minutes. A successful DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) check can force you to regurgitate the bezoar early. A bezoar that has been regurgitated before the end of its duration recharges and becomes fully functional again after 24 hours have passed, provided it remains outside of a creature’s body this entire time. 

You can gain the benefits of only one bezoar at a time, and while a bezoar sits in your stomach, you can’t gain any benefit from other edible magic items, such as potions. Although the bezoar is uncomfortable, it doesn’t impact your ability to eat or drink, but it does prevent you from gaining any special benefits from consuming magical foodstuffs, such as those produced by the goodberry and heroes’ feasts spells or fantastical foods and beverages (described later in this section). 

Owlbear Curses. Owlbears are not picky eaters and wind up devouring all sorts of nastiness: carrion, furry creatures, magical plants, fey river stones, feathery things, nut shells, and magic-infused bone. As such, bezoars from owlbears have a 50 percent chance of being cursed. You can’t remove a cursed bezoar before its full duration (when you regurgitate it as normal) unless you are first targeted by a remove curse spell. However, if the bezoar is not removed before your next short or long rest after the spell’s casting, the curse returns. The curse ends automatically once the bezoar is regurgitated. 

<h2>Specialty Food & Drink</h2>
Fantastical foods and beverages are unique types of consumable magic items. They look, feel, smell, and taste like nonmagical food or beverages, but fantastical food and beverages never spoil. 

To gain the benefits from a fantastical food or beverage, you must spend at least 1 minute consuming it. If you eat a fantastical food or beverage as part of a short rest and you expend one or more Hit Dice to regain hit points, you double the number of hit points each Hit Die restores. Each type of fantastical food or beverage also grants benefits, which you gain after consuming the food or beverage or at the end of the short rest where the food or beverage was consumed (your choice). You can gain the benefits from only one type of fantastical food or beverage at a time. 

<h2>Cooking Fantastical Foods and Beverages.</h2> 
Fantastical foods and beverages provide temporary benefits and work much like potions or spell scrolls—in fact, the fantastical foods and beverages listed here are categorized as potions because of this. To cook up a fantastical food or beverage during downtime, the character needs the recipe. Otherwise, treat cooking a fantastical food or beverage no differently than brewing a potion or scribing a spell scroll.  

<h2>Spirit Honey</h2>
Spirit honey is the natural honey made by nonmagical bees that harvest and use the nectar of poisonous or magical plants. The essences of these plants are concentrated by the bees into a powerful yet mind bending treat. Many alchemists and hedge witches feel the rewards of spirit honey outweigh the risks, and their regular consumption of the magical honey often contributes to stories of “mad” alchemists or “quirky” witches. 

To gain the benefits from spirit honey, you must consume it. When you eat spirit honey, you gain its benefits and a long-term madness for 1d10 x 10 hours. If you suffer the madness of the spirit honey for the full duration, you gain insight into some aspect of the universe. If your madness is cured before the end of the duration, you lose all benefits of the spirit honey, and you don’t gain the insight. The calm emotions spell can temporarily suppress the madness caused by the spirit honey for the duration of the spell, but you also lose the benefits of the spirit honey for that same duration. The use of this spell doesn’t negatively impact you receiving insight at the end of the spirit honey’s duration.

<h2>Troll Blood</h2>
While some potions and elixirs use diluted troll blood to enhance the natural healing of the drinker, some alchemists don’t dilute the blood, preferring to bottle and consume it in its pure form. Drinking troll blood that hasn’t been diluted provides great healing, but it can also cause odd mutations. 
To gain the benefits of troll blood, you must drink the viscous substance like a potion. When you drink the troll blood, you regain hit points at the start of each of your turns up to an amount determined by the type of potion. If you take acid or fire damage, this regeneration doesn’t function at the start of your next turn. While under the effects of troll blood, you die only if you start your turn with 0 hit points and don’t regenerate. In addition, you can reattach a severed body part by holding it in place for 1d4 rounds. However, the potion’s magic can’t regrow missing body parts.

Harvesting Troll Blood. You can collect the blood of a freshly slain troll by succeeding on a DC 15 Wisdom (Medicine) check. This collected blood is equivalent to a potion of troll blood, but it lasts only 2d4 days. Though potions of troll blood are made from undiluted troll blood, the blood requires some processing to give the potion longevity and to create its more potent forms. Higher potency potions are typically made from blood that is much more concentrated than fresh troll blood. At the GM’s discretion, particularly powerful trolls might yield blood that is equivalent to a more potent potion of troll blood. 

Instant Death and Mutations 
A potion of troll blood continues regenerating your body up to an amount determined by the potion’s potency, even if you are restored to your hit point maximum before reaching that amount. Excessive regeneration, especially in a short amount of time, can mutate or even kill creatures that don’t naturally regenerate. Although you can’t receive healing that exceeds your hit point maximum, the potion’s regeneration can cause other effects if it would regenerate hit points beyond your maximum. 

Instant Death. If the potion’s remaining regeneration would equal or exceed twice your hit point maximum, you die. For example, a cleric with a maximum of 12 hit points currently has 6 hit points. If the cleric regenerates 30 hit points over the duration of the potion without taking further damage, the cleric is restored to their maximum hit points, but 24 healing remains. Because the remaining healing equals twice the cleric’s hit point maximum, the cleric dies. 
Mutations. If the potion restores hit points beyond your hit point maximum, you must immediately succeed on a Constitution saving throw (DC equals 10 + the number of hit points over your hit point maximum) or develop a mutation. Each potency lists the type of mutation it causes—minor or major—and the maximum number of mutations it can cause with each dose. When you suffer a mutation, the GM rolls a d100 and consults the appropriate mutation table. A mutation lasts for 1d4 + 1 hours. 

<h4>Minor Mutation Table</h4>
<table>
    <thead>
        <tr><td>d100</td><td>Minor Mutation</td></tr>
    </thead>
    <tr><td>01-20</td><td>Your skin grows thick and gnarly, and you gain a +1 bonus to AC. However, you become vulnerable to acid damage and fire damage, and when a creature scores a critical hit against you, it rolls damage dice three times, instead of twice. </td></tr>
    <tr><td>21-30</td><td>Changes in your olfactory system give you a keen sense of smell. You have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on smell. However, you take 2d6 psychic damage whenever you fail a Wisdom saving throw. </td></tr>
    <tr><td>31-40</td><td>Your eyes develop to accommodate the dark, and you gain darkvision out to 60 feet. However, you take a −4 penalty on Dexterity saving throws. </td></tr>
    <tr><td>41-50</td><td>Claws burst from the ends of your fingers. Your claws are natural melee weapons, which you can use to make unarmed strikes. When you hit with your claw, it deals slashing damage equal to 1d6 + your Strength modifier, instead of the bludgeoning damage normal for an unarmed strike. However, your clawed hands make your normal actions more challenging, and you take a −4 penalty on attack rolls with weapons other than your claws. </td></tr>
    <tr><td>51-60</td><td>Your jaw extends, and your teeth grow constantly and haphazardly, only to fall out as new ones take their place. You are proficient with this bite, which deals 1d8 + your Strength modifier piercing damage on a hit. When you make a melee attack, you can use a bonus action to attack that same target with your bite. However, you can no longer verbally communicate, and you can’t cast spells with verbal components. </td></tr>
    <tr><td>61-70</td><td>Your arms, shoulders, legs, and back bulge slightly as muscle and sinew double in mass. You count as one size larger when determining your carrying capacity and the weight you can push, drag, or lift. However, your speed is reduced by 10 feet. </td></tr>
    <tr><td>71-80</td><td>Your mind clouds over, enraged and feverish. You have advantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws, and you deal an extra 2 damage of the weapon’s type when you hit with a melee weapon attack using Strength. However, when you make a melee attack, you have a 50 percent chance of hitting another creature within 5 feet of your target, which can include your allies. </td></tr>
    <tr><td>81-90</td><td>Your blood becomes overly thick, and any damage you take is reduced by 1. However, the thickened blood also hinders your body’s natural defenses, and you take a −4 penalty on Constitution saving throws.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>91-00</td><td>You develop an eye-watering reek. When a humanoid or beast starts its turn in a space within 5 feet of you, it must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving saving throw or use its reaction to move 5 feet away from you. In addition, you have disadvantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks.</td></tr>
</table>


<h4>Major Mutation Table</h4>
<table>
    <thead>
        <tr><td>d100</td><td>Major Mutation</td></tr>
    </thead>
    <tr><td>01-20</td><td>Your form roils and changes constantly and subtly. You have resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks. However, this constant changing makes you more susceptible to magic, and you have disadvantage on saving throws against spells.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>21-30</td><td>An extra arm sprouts from somewhere on your body. The arm can’t wield weapons or hold items heavier than 5 pounds, but it can provide you some aid, granting you advantage on Strength checks and saving throws. However, the new limb throws off your coordination and sense of balance, imposing disadvantage on Dexterity checks and saving throws you make. </td></tr>
    <tr><td>31-40</td><td>You start hemorrhaging excessively when hit, spraying magic-infused blood around you. When a creature hits you with a melee attack while within 5 feet of you, it must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or take 1d6 necrotic damage. However, any damage you take is increased by 1 as your blood flows more freely.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>41-50</td><td>Subtle changes in your scent and presence attracts humanoids and irritates beasts around you. When interacting socially with humanoids, you have advantage on Charisma checks. However, beasts with an Intelligence of 4 or lower are immediately hostile toward you. </td></tr>
    <tr><td>51-60</td><td>You grow a second, vestigial head. You have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and on saving throws against being blinded, harmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious, and you can’t be surprised while conscious. However, the mental input from the secondary head distracts you as it attempts to aid your attack rolls. Whenever you miss an attack roll, you take half the damage you would have dealt to the target. </td></tr>
    <tr><td>61-70</td><td>Your nerves become hyperactive, leading you to jerk, fidget, and move randomly and involuntarily. You gain a +2 bonus to AC as your enemies have a hard time determining your exact location. However, the involuntary movement makes it difficult for you to move and act deliberately. On your turn, you can use either an action or bonus action, not both. </td></tr>
    <tr><td>71-80</td><td>Your body twists, elongates, and forms extra skin or callouses as it adapts itself to a different mode of travel. You gain a burrowing or swimming speed (GM’s choice) equal to your base walking speed. However, you speed is halved while walking on land. </td></tr>
    <tr><td>81-90</td><td>Your blood becomes toxic, and you become poisoned. However, while poisoned in this way, you are immune to disease, poison damage, and necrotic damage.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>91-00</td><td>Your metabolism slows imperceptibly, causing you to continue regenerating, albeit slowly. You regain 3 hit points every 10 minutes for the duration of this mutation. This regeneration can trigger instant death, as detailed in the Instant Death and Mutations section, if you aren’t mindful of your regeneration.</td></tr>
</table>

<h2>Fabled Magic Items</h2>
Magic items are typically categorized by their rarity: common, uncommon, rare, very rare, or legendary. Fabled is a new magic item identifier, though it is not, strictly speaking, a measure of rarity. Fabled items scale in power as the character does, and a fabled item can be thought to encompass all levels of rarity. Fabled magic items are perfect for GMs who want to introduce magic items which are truly unique with rich stories closely tied to the campaign world. Since the item grows as the character grows, it becomes a treasured, long-term possession. In addition to being special magic items characters can discover during an adventure, fabled magic items also make excellent heirlooms that are passed down through a family, bestowed to an apprentice, or similar.

<h3>Properties and Attunement</h3>
A fabled magic item begins as a common magic item. It has a small, but useful, property the item grants to any character that possesses it. This minor property does not require attunement to use.To utilize any of the higher-level properties, a character must attune to the fabled item per the standard magic item attunement rules (see Variant Attunement sidebar for an exception). Once attuned to the fabled magic item, the character can use the fabled item’s more powerful properties as the character increases in level. When an attuned character reaches a property’s specified level, the property listed at that level becomes immediately available to the character. If a character of a level higher than 1st attunes to a fabled item, the item’s level-dependent properties, up to the character’s current level, become available to the character. 

At the GM’s discretion, an item’s more powerful properties might become available to a character only after the character completes a particular quest or event related to the item’s story rather than immediately upon reaching each property’s required level. 
If a character chooses not to become attuned to the fabled item, the item remains a common magic item, granting the character only its minor property, regardless of the character’s level. Unless otherwise noted, all properties granted by a fabled item are in effect as long as the character is wearing, carrying, or touching the item. 

<h3>Spells</h3>
Some fabled items allow characters to cast spells from them. Spells marked with an asterisk (*) appear in Deep Magic for 5th Edition. All other spells can be found in the System Reference Document 5.1.

<h3>Stories</h3>
Fabled items are unique and come with a story which is inexorably linked to the item’s properties. Some hint of this story presents itself when the character touches the item—a name, place, or other clue pops into the character’s mind or otherwise manifests itself. This hint might prompt the character to research the item and its story. A GM might even require such research before the character can become attuned to the item! Unless a GM decides otherwise, a character that attunes to a fabled item learns the item’s story, if the character didn’t discover that information before attuning to it.

<h3>Using Fabled Items in Your Game</h3>
Here are examples of how fabled items might be used and introduced early and late in a campaign.Discovering the Item Early. A 1st-level fighter finds a razor-sharp longsword of outstanding craftsmanship in a treasure hoard. The blade is faintly etched with numerous arcane runes and symbols, and it sheds light when the fighter speaks a special word. 
Once the fighter has claimed the sword as her own, she begins to hear the word Cailebryn in her mind. She becomes curious enough to research the word, which leads her to eventually discover that she possesses the legendary Cailebryn, sword of Gax! Once the fighter reaches 5th level, she chooses to attune to Cailebryn,which gives her access to its 5th-level property. From that point on, as long as the fighter remains attuned to Cailebryn, she is able to use Cailebryn’s other properties when she reaches 9th level, 13th level, and 17th level.
    
    
<b><i>Discovering the Item Later.</i></b> A 9th-level rogue uncovers an ancient, leather-bound book in a forgotten library. Its pages are edged in gold leaf, and an elaborate, gold sigil of the letter “T” is stamped on the cover. Upon reading the first few pages, he gains knowledge of many topics which were previously foreign to him. He soon begins having dreams of a charismatic half elf ’s many adventures. After much investigation, he learns the book is none other than the wanderer’s book, a famous journal that once belonged to the legendary bard, Talvin the Wanderer. The rogue decides he wants to become attuned to the book. When he does, he immediately gains access to the wanderer’s book’s 5th-level and 9th-level properties, though he can’t use its other properties until he reaches the appropriate levels.

   <h3>VARIANT ATTUNEMENT</h3>
A character can normally be attuned to no more than three magic items at a time. However, fabled magic items can become more powerful than other magic items as a character increases in level. A GM concerned about this might require a character to use more than one of their attunement ‘slots’ to become attuned to the fabled item, limiting the character’s number of total attuned items. 
For GMs interested in this variant attunement, we recommend that a fabled item wielded by a character of 12th level or lower be considered a single item for the purposes of attunement. When wielded by a character of 13th level or higher, the fabled item should be considered two items for the purposes of attunement. 
At the GM’s discretion, a fabled item wielded by a character of 17th level or higher might be considered three items for the purposes of attunement, though this restriction greatly depends upon the presence and power of magic in the campaign world. If legendary and artifact magic items are almost nonexistent in the world, then it might be appropriate to add this extra limit to better represent the power of the items and the strength of will required to command them.
